# Setup

## Vocabulary/etc.

  Check out these things in AWS

  * Cloud Watch
  * Cloud Watch Logs
  * ECS (elastic container service)
  * ECR (elastic container registry)
  * Cloud Formation (manager the cluster at first)
  * Secrets Manager
  * Target Groups
  * EC2

##  Install the AWS CLI
  https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/install-cliv2-linux-mac.html

  Configure the AWS CLI
  aws2 --profile=openpath configure
  OR
  aws --profile=openpath configure

##  Install the ECS CLI
  https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/ECS_CLI_installation.html
  ```
  sudo curl -o /usr/local/bin/ecs-cli https://amazon-ecs-cli.s3.amazonaws.com/ecs-cli-darwin-amd64-latest
  curl -s https://amazon-ecs-cli.s3.amazonaws.com/ecs-cli-darwin-amd64-latest.md5 &&md5 -q /usr/local/bin/ecs-cli
  sudo chmod +x /usr/local/bin/ecs-cli
  ecs-cli configure profile --profile-name openpath --access-key $AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID --secret-key $AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY
  ```

  ```
  For linux
  sudo curl -o /usr/local/bin/ecs-cli https://amazon-ecs-cli.s3.amazonaws.com/ecs-cli-linux-amd64-latest
  sudo chmod +x /usr/local/bin/ecs-cli
  ecs-cli configure profile --profile-name openpath --access-key $AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID --secret-key $AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY
  ```

## Install JQ
  This isn't really needed. It just helps with dealing with large json documents you get from aws cli commands.

  ```
  brew install jq
  OR
  sudo apt-get install jq
  ```

  Read the jq man page for at least 10 minutes. It will make reading some of the commands you'll see a lot easier.


## AWS logs cli tool

  Install a tool to view logs

  pip install awslogs
  https://github.com/jorgebastida/awslogs

## Portainer.io to manage/debug/view containers

  First set up things

    * Connect to VPN if you're not connecting from the office.

    * Add .ssh/config entries for all cluster instances (or get from another developer)
      Use a different local port for each instance (e.g. 23760 , 23761, etc.)
        Host op-ecs0-docker-tunnel
          HostName <redacted>
          User <redacted>
          LocalForward 0.0.0.0:23760 127.0.0.1:2376
          ExitOnForwardFailure true

    * Connect to all instances (e.g. ssh op-ecs0-docker-tunnel)

    * copy and modify config/deploy/docker/assets/portainer.example to
      `portainer` somewhere in your path.

    * run portainer, and sign in at localhost:9000 (or whatever port you changed it to)

    * Modify your firewall to allow the local ports:
      I had to allow TCP ports 23760 and 23761 incoming from my docker0 network. Macs
      will be different I suspect.

    * Grab the IP the portainer container will use to connect to the tunnel

  Add each docker daemon

    * Endpoints » Add Endpoint

    * choose Environment type = Docker

    * Name it (e.g. op-ecs0)

    * Set endpoint url. This will be the IP of your laptop with the forwarded
      port from above. localhost won't work because that would be inside the
      portainer container.

      Example: 192.168.10.246:23760

    * Set the group to 'Open Path' by clicking on groups on the left. It's very
      intuitive from there.

## Docker Creds

   Didn't get any of this working. We should do that eventually.

   set a password/credential helper:
   https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/login/#credentials-store


   Ubuntu/Debian:


   sudo apt-get install pass
   echo '{"credsStore":"pass"}' >> $HOME/.docker/config.json
   echo fix up the broken json now:
   vim $HOME/.docker/config.json

   Mac:
   Use osx keychain I think. replace 'pass' above with 'osxkeychain'

## Make a Cluster

  ECS Reference
  https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/ecs/index.html

  Creating a Cluster

  https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/ecs-cli-tutorial-ec2.html

  ```
  ecs-cli configure --cluster=openpath --default-launch-type=EC2 --config-name=openpath --region=us-east-1

  ecs-cli up --keypair=blackman --capability-iam --size=2 --instance-type=t3.small --cluster-config=openpath --ecs-profile=openpath --security-group=123 --vpc=123 --subnets=subnet-1,subnet-2
  ```


## Adjust Cluster

  via capacity providers, auto-scaling groups, and launch configurations.
  Still figuring this out, so no docs yet.

# Front-end

  We need to set up a target group and attach it to the load balancer's
  listener rules. This is handled is the boostrap.rb script. It also sets up
  DNS records.

  Run this script for each environment (cas production, cas staging, warehouse
  production, and warehouse staging)

  export AWS_PROFILE=openpath

  ./config/deploy/docker/bootstrap_lb_and_dns somecity-warehouse.openpath.host somecity-production-ecs

## Redirects

  Edit the load balancer rules to add any redirects you need if the default
  openpath.host domain isn't what you want

## Database

  See the rds script

  ./config/deploy/docker/rds <database-instance-name>

## Configuration

  Run in ansible after adding the new installations there. This will generate
  the secrets, polices, databases, database users, and roles you need.

  Copy the relvant information into config/deploy/docker/assets/secret.deploy.values.yml

## Deployment

  * symlink
    config/deploy/docker/assets/secret.deploy.values.yml
    to a subdirectory within the ansible repo
    ./op-ecs-deploy/secret.deploy.values.yml

  * `export AWS_PROFILE=openpath`

  * Run `deploy staging` or `deploy production` to deploy, for example. See
    the yaml file for the possible environments you can deploy at one time
