# Help, containers aren't running or are pending forever

  Things are broken, and you're panicking. Here are some things to try

  Have you recently spun up new instances? Run this to mark them correctly...

  `./config/deploy/docker/mark_spot_instances`

  Log into AWS..

    * click on the service with problems
    * check events
    * check tasks. If you see none, try filtering to stopped tasks.

  ssh to EC2 instances and

    * sudo systemctl restart ecs

    * docker container ls, and docker stop problematic containers. We have a long
     stop time policy, and stuck containers, even of an unrelated type can cause
     problems.

    * run the update_agents.rb script from your laptop

    * check min and max healthly task definition parameters. ECS can get
      confused and deadlocked if they make for an impossible deployment

    * sudo systemctl start docker

    * sudo systemctl restart docker

    * reboot cluster server


# Can't build

    * If you get errors like: failed to export image: failed to create image: failed to get layer sha256:d4f636367bc5324f78075f817666c33561a97bc61328b08caddfa7957f2352df: layer does not exist
      try adding `RUN true` lines around the problematic Dockerfile line.

# Can't get a container to drain?

  Have you recently spun up new instances? Run this to mark them correctly...

  `./config/deploy/docker/mark_spot_instances`

# Want to make cluster smaller?

  * Modify one of the auto-scaling groups
  * The instances are protected from scale-in, so you can safely set the target
    size.
  * That said, for making them smaller, set the desired and minimum to what you
    want, and keep the max at the old bigger value.
  * Drain the instance you want to remove.
  * When down to zero containers, terminate the EC2 instance.
  * Update the auto-scaling group to have the smaller maximum after that.

# Want to make cluster bigger

  Making clusters bigger is less risky. You just set the desired and maximum to
  what you want in the auto-scaling group.

  Then...

  `./config/deploy/docker/mark_spot_instances`
